===========================
ELHASO-iOS-snippets license
===========================

The file ``Base64+ELHASO.m`` and it's header file were taken from
http://www.cocoadev.com/index.pl?BaseSixtyFour and are copyrighted by
cyrus.najmabadi@gmail.com who put them in the public domain. The file is
included for the ``get_image*`` methods from ``NSDictionary+ELHASO.m``. You can
remove this method and the Base64 code if you need to.

Unless otherwise stated, all the source code in this repository is available
under the MIT license (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
meaning that you can take what you want and not give back. However, you might
want to thank me buying some commercial program I wrote, and who knows, you
might even like it! You can visit Electric Hands Software at http://elhaso.es/
or the app store at
http://itunes.apple.com/es/artist/electric-hands-software/id325946567.

Here's the license template applied to the source code:

| Copyright (c) 2014, Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz.
| All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
